chapter 6 "Cave Explorer II & The Postman"

These two are related. The letter you need to give to Roshd is hidden 
in the treasure chest of the Orc captain you need to slay. 

Lat's assume we're starting this from Radagast's training room because
you didn't listen to me in the last chapter and you went there to do
magic training. All righty, let's head to the cave where the Orc
invasion force is gathering in preparation to destroy the town above.

1d, 1n, 4w

We are now on the humpbacked bridge between the town and the forest.
Below this bridge is a nasty troll and the cave where the bad guy orcs 
live. We will do some more sneaking here.

cloak
1d

See the troll? Nasty.

2e, 1ne, 1nw, 1n, 1e, 2n
open door
1n

You're here. The orc commander. Notice how low your stamina is...all that
cloaked sneaking really sapped your strength. If you were higher level
I would have suggested fighting your way here and then slamming 
this guy with your magic whip and fireballs while shielding yourself 
with magic buffer after buffer. This is a no-foolin' boss level guy, and
when you start fighting, he closes and locks the door behind you. Unless
you've figured out the portal device or the omni or some other way to 
magically retreat if things get tenuous, you are in it to win it.

So, I'm not going to give you cheats on winning that. There are no cheats.
You'll have to level up and grind up until you can go toe to toe with the Orc
Commander.

But, here's how you can complete the Postman quest:

get letter from table
2s, 1w, 1s, 1se, 1sw, 2w, 1u
decloak

There's an excellent chance you ran out of stamina along the way there.
Make sure that doesn't happen. Becoming visible in the lair of an orc
invasion force is not a good idea if you're not loaded for bear.

One way to speed up your recovery is to cast a spell that helps center you:

cast meditate

All right, let's head to Roshd:

1w, 26n
enter cave
dial tower
enter gate
1d, 1s, 1w, 1n
give letter to roshd

If you tried to read it, it's Tangetto and you couldn't make heads or tails of
it. It's some dumb stuff about how humans are savages and the orc outpost
is only barely hanging on and I love you so much blah blah. Anyway hand it over
and you get your points.



