chapter 4 "The Town Well"

This one is really tricky. There are wheels to turn, levers to pull,
grates to open, and as a weak little human you can't do it all yourself...
or can you? This isn't called a cheat book for nothing.

All righty we're going to call upon some of the stuff you've already done.
We need to head back to the town and deposit any cash you picked up and 
sell any heavy armor you may have that you don't really need (like the
leather boots and jacket from the mansion or chainmail from the church)
and then deposit that money too. Get in the habit of watching your
encumbrance. Keep that weird gray amulet if you found it in the church, though.
And that access badge from Kleiner!

It's especially important now because you'e about to go fetch a bunch of
heavy equipment to get this quest done.

So if you're still at Roshd, head back to town:

1s, 1e, 1n, 1u
dial cave
enter gate
out
26s, 5e, 1n
sell blue jeans
sell white shirt (etc)
1s, 1w, 3n, 1e 
deposit all

Ok now back to the Campus lab

1w, 3s, 4w, 26n
enter cave
dial campus lab
enter gate
2s
get all from bench

Yeah dude. A rocket pack and a portal generator. Sweet. Save those for a little later.

2n
dial stargate lab
enter gate
1n, 1e

What? What is this? A mech? What? Yes indeed. There should be a landstrider mech
here...looking kind of like ED-209 from Robocop but with a seat you can get into.

give badge to mech
enter mech
drive west
drive south
direct mech to dial campus lab
direct mech to enter gate
drive south
drive south
get badge
direct mech to enter portal
exit mech
cast light

You're in an underground tunnel that has a very heavy door that you can't open
yourself if you're a puny human, so you're goig to have to get the mech to
open it for you, once you get the key. Let's leave the mech here for now.

Make sure you get that badge back or you won't be able to get back here.

enter portal
1n, 1e, 1n, 2e
open door
cast light
1s, 1d, 1w
push wall
2w, 1s
open hatch
1d
get key from table
1u, 1n, 4e, 1u, 1n, 2w, 1s, 1w, 1s
enter portal
cast light
unlock door with key
enter mech
direct mech to open door
drive west
drive west
direct mech to open grate
drive east
drive east 
direct mech to enter portal
exit

All right so we've unlocked that super heavy door and had the mech open it, 
then we had the mech open the super heavy grate. There are other ways to solve
this problem, and they involve killing a human and then making it into a zombie.
If you want to try that solution (or the mech or portal are not available), read the 
player hints book and that will guide you through. Otherwise, this method is the
quick and dirty. Now we need to open up the water wheel so that water can start
flooding the overhead chamber...but we also want to wear some gear that will 
let us breathe underwater in case we don't type fast enough.

Remember all that crud you grabbed from the lab table earlier? One of those things
was an A98 breathing device. This will help. If you don't have it handy, just be sure
you can type fast. The next steps will flood the rooms you are in, and as a human
you are not super great at breathing water.

enter portal
2w
wear a98
turn wheel
2e
enter portal
remove a98

Ok! What's happening now is that a bunch of water is flooding the rooms you were
in. It's flooding upwards into a chamber near the town well. This will take a few
minutes. Once that's done, we'll head over to the well and open a door that lets 
the water into the well, solving the quest.

Another thing the water is doing is flooding along the corridor you were in, and
filling up a locked-up room with water. This is a really really good thing, because
that room has a cave troll that you need to be dead for a different quest, and it is 
much easier to have it die from drowning than to have to kill it with combat.

All right, let's head up to the well.

2n
dial cave
enter gate
out
26s, 4e, 1s
enter well

Ok here we are. Has it been a few minutes? Maybe 5 or so? Let's go ahead and open 
that flood door:

pull lever

If that doesn't work, push the lever and wait some more and try again. If that still
doesn't work, you may need to try the zombie solution.

























